# Standards
1. Only material registered in the *CMS* is regarded as registered. Material registered in other systems or spreadsheet files is not considered registered by the curation standard. It is strongly advised that specimens be registered directly in the *CMS*.
2. If direct registration in the *CMS* is not possible for technical reasons (e.g. during field work or registration through an external resource, e.g. guest or loaner), and material is registered in an extenal system, the responsibility to transfer data to the *CMS* lies solely with the staff that has initiated registration in the external system. Following 1., material is first considered registered according to the curatorial standard once it is successfully imported into the database. It is strongly advised that staff initiating registration in an external system ensure that the data structure in the external system tightly corresponds to the requirements imposed by the *CMS*. Ideally, the external system will be a spreadsheet template generated in the *CMS* (Specify Workbench). In case of registration in an external system, UUIDs encoded in QR-codes (or, if not available, field-/collector numbers) need to be given. Official catalog numbers will be assigned first upon upload to the *CMS*.
3. If external users are to carry out registration, any policies that apply must be followed.
4. The *Database Manager* is responsible to upload; the xxx is responsible to deliver the data in uploadable format
-Registration to system; who authorizes? Who creates user accounts

## Catalog numbers
The museum uses a standard format for its catalog numbers, which consists of the museum acronym NHMD and a nine digit serial number that is autogenerated by the *CMS*. This is the official catalog number for collections management. All transactions of material (loans, etc) refer to this catalog number. For hitherto unpublished material, this will also be the identifier used in publications and other citations of the collection object.

Any old catalog numbers previously assigned by NHMD or its predecessors (Zoologisk Museum, Geologisk Museum, Botanisk Museum) are preserved as **Alternate Catalog Number**. Any identifier assigned by another entity will be preserved as **Other Identifier**

Newly registered specimens will be labeled with the standard catalog number.

## Accessions
All material entering the collections, be it as a result from field work, donations, purchases, is formally accessioned. All accessions are documented and registered in the *CMS*. For material that enters the collections but where ownership resides with another party, the accession is governed by a *repository agreement*.
Accessions are identified by an **Accession Number** in the format of four digit year, two letter collection code, and a three digit serial number. The *CMS* assigns accession numbers automatically.

## Taxonomic information

Avoid using unpublished taxon names. If you want to remark about these, use the `confidential information` field, but do not add them to the taxon field.

# Data standards with regard to publishing

All data is generally open and will be published from the database to aggregators. The `confidential information` field of the collections object form will hold any information on the object that will not be published
