# Getting Started with Specify 

This is a brief introduction for quickly getting up and running with Specify. 

## Accessing Specify

There are two main editions of Specify: **Specify6** (desktop program) and **Specify7** (web-based). 

For most users, especially new ones, we recommend using the web-based Specify7 edition. 
There may be specific reasons to use Specify6 instead, because Specif7 does not yet cover all features. 
At the same time, Specify7 is modern, relatively fast and easy to get started with. 

Specify6 requires a user to be inside the Copenhagen University (KU) network, either through a cabled connection or VPN. 
You cannot use Specify6 through KU's Eduroam Wifi, unless you connect through VPN. 
To be able to connect via VPN, you need to have a KU username, which you only can have when you're either an employee or registered as external partner. 

Instructions on how to install Specify6 on your machine can be found on this FAQ: [I need to (re)install Specify6](https://github.com/NHMDenmark/DanSpecify/blob/master/Documentation/User%20Guide/8.%20FAQ.md#i-need-to-reinstall-specify-6)

Specify7 can be accessed at the internet addresses listed on this FAQ: [Where can I access Specify 7?](https://github.com/NHMDenmark/DanSpecify/blob/master/Documentation/User%20Guide/8.%20FAQ.md#where-can-i-access-specify-7)

In order to use Specify, you need to have a user account. Please contact the Specify team for having your user account created: [Contact](https://github.com/NHMDenmark/DanSpecify/blob/master/Documentation/User%20Guide/8.%20FAQ.md#frequently-asked-questions)

This guide will exclusively focus on using Specify7. For Specify6, a large number of video tutorials have already been provided by the Specify Consortium on Vimeo here: https://vimeo.com/specifysoftware

# Using Specify (under construction)

- Data Entry

- Querying Data

- Taxon Tree 

- Loans

- Accessions 

- Labels & Reports

- Importing Data (WorkBench) 
