# Importing Data (Workbench)

(under construction)

**Step 1: Click on WorkBench.**

**Step 2: Upload (import) a file**

You can import data from CSV, TSV, TXT, XLS, and XLSX files

**Step 3: Check the preview**

You will see a preview of your Data Set, along with the option to name the Data Set so you can
access it later from Record Sets. Click Import file if everything looks correct.

**Step 4: Click on Upload File**

**Step 5: Define an Upload Plan**

If this is your first time uploading this file you will have to define an upload plan. Click Create.
You will be asked to select a base table. Choose Collection Object.
The WorkBench will read the existing column headings in a dataset and map them to Specify fields
using ‘Automapper’.
You must match each column with the correct field within Specify. You can use the Map Explorer
ribbon at the top of the WorkBench interface or the drop-down menus in each column’s row.
The drop-down menu will show you the Automapper’s suggestions for your column’s mapping.
But you should follow this mapping guide, (in case of Exhibition collection):

**Step 6: Preview**

**Step 7: Validate the import**

It validates the upload plan to ensure there are no missing mappings or data fields required. Turns
green when clicked on once the data is ready to be saved.

**Step 8: Upload the dataset**

If there is no problem, you can click on Upload

**Step 9: Success!**

Hopefully, you see this pop-up message

**Step 10: Error during the upload**

If some error occurs, please save the error message
You can also use the Roll back function, which undo the dataset upload to the database:

Further information on WorkBench:
https://discourse.specifysoftware.org/t/the-specify-7-workbench/540
